today I'm going to show you how to set
up and use your time Ex health touch
contact heart rate monitor this is a
really simple and convenient tool to use
to help ensure your exercise is
efficient it's an everyday watch
comfortable water-resistant with timers
and alarms for your convenience built-in
is a heart rate sensor which you can
access anytime you wear the watch by
touching the stainless-steel top ring
your heart rate is one of the best ways
to gauge efficiency if your heart rate
is too low you aren't burning enough
calories or gain of fitness benefits of
exercise if your heart rate is too high
you are exerting too much effort which
could lead to shortened exercised
periods injuries or heart concerns for
most people looking to get the benefits
of aerobic exercise you should try to
keep your heart rate in the 65 to 85
percent zone to figure this out for you
start by finding your maximum heart rate
there are different ways to determine
this number for simplicity sake you can
use a formula recommended by the US
Department of Health to 20 minus your
age then apply the 65 to 85 percentages
so for me I subtract 220 from 37 183
beats per minute my target zone is
between 119 and 156 beats per minute
when I workout in this zone I know I'm
burning a good amount of calories by not
pushing my body too hard if you have any
health issues or different fitness goals
consult your doctor about what your
target heart rate should be okay let's
set up the watch it is very simple first
set the time in the time of day mode
hold mode for 3 seconds until the
display flashes press mode to advance
through the settings you can edit these
settings by using start/stop or reset to
save the new settings hold mode for 3
seconds then go to setup mode to enter
your personal settings in setup mode
hold mode for 3 seconds use a top right
button to increase values and bottom
right buttons to decrease values then
press mode to advance through options
enter your age gender high target zone
and low target zone when you're done
press and hold mode for 3 seconds while
still in setup mode
the top right button again to make sure
your target zones are turned on you
should see your upper and lower limits
displayed now you're ready to go put the
watch on snugly this is important for
the sensor if you want to get your heart
rate at any time during the day simply
touch the top ring and hold your finger
there for about five to eight seconds
you'll see your actual heart rate as a
number how this compares to your max
heart rate and if you are in the target
zone too high or too low if you're
walking or trying to get some exercise
and you see zone low that's your signal
to increase your effort to get your
heart rate up if you want to use this
for a timed activity or workout use the
activity mode and press the red button
to start and then again to stop this has
a built in chronograph to time your
activity and it will also calculate
calories burned based on the last heart
rate measured check your heart rate
often to improve calorie accuracy time
exhale touch is convenient and easy and
can really help you make the most of
your workouts